Balor is one of the most inputs
sensitive games on the planet and yet
even top tier PCs run it poorly when
misconfigured. Today I'm going to walk
you through the ultimate PC optimization
guide for Valerant. We're going to cover
best in-game settings, Nvidia and AMD
Radeon control panel setup, Windows
tuning, BIOS level performance settings
for Intel and AMD, and an advanced trick
at the end to lower your input lag even
further. Valerant is built on Unreal
Engine and love CPU power. So, we
optimize for visibility, FPS stability,
and lowest latency. Here's the settings
that you should change. Full screen
mode, you want to set to full screen and
then set your FPS to a multiple of your
refresh rate. For my example, I have a
144 hertz monitor and my PC can easily
do 288 FPS constantly. So, I'm going to
cap my FPS at 288 the whole entire time.
Then go to graphics quality. You want to
set everything to low with the exception
of anti-aliasing. You could test none or
MSA X2. This going to make it so the
jagged edges are way smoother in game
and just make it look a little bit
better if you have a better graphics
card. Instropic filtering the 1x and
everything else off. Now low settings
aren't just for low-end PCs. They give
more consistent frame timing which means
cleaner aim feel. So in this video we're
going to be using a Valerant ultimate
optimization guide pack. So go to my
Discord server and download it from the
tweaks channel in order to continue. So
the first thing that we want to do is
we're going to completely reinstall our
Nvidia drivers. So, I'm going to be
using display driver uninstaller. And
all you have to do is just press no on
that. Then press okay. Then press okay
again. Then select device type graphics
card. And then just press clean and
restart. This is going to completely
uninstall the current Nvidia drivers.
Wipe any configuration that you've done
to your current Nvidia driver and just
completely give you a fresh slate for
your Nvidia driver and it's going to
restart it as soon as it's done with
that. Once it's done restarting, head
back to the same folder. Then go to the
Nvidia folder and we're going to double
click NV Clean Install 1.119. This is
just a deep loader for Nvidia drivers.
It will install your Nvidia driver, the
latest one, which is going to be the one
that we're using. It's going to
completely remove all the unnecessary
features that we don't need for gaming.
And then we're also going to do some
post installation tweaks. So just press
next. Press next again and let that
download. Then installation tweaks.
Check the first three and then check
disable Ansel, show expert tweaks,
disable driver telemetry, disable HTTP,
and check the last two options at the
bottom. Then press next. Press install
and it's going to completely install
Nvidia driver with some preconfigured
stuff. So, open up Nvidia control panel
and in adjust desktop color settings.
We're going to up the digital vibrance
to 75%. This is going to make colors way
more vibrant in Valerant. It's going to
make you spot enemies way faster and
it's just going to give you more
awareness in game. Then we're going to
go to adjust image settings with a
preview. Drag your preference
emphasizing to performance. Then press
apply. Then select use the advanced
image 3D settings and then press apply.
Then click take me there. And then we're
going to disable anti-aliasing gamma
correction. Set that to off. And then
we're going to scroll down. Low latency
mode. This is pretty much obsolete, but
still set it to on just in case because
Valerant uses reflex, so it's pointless.
OpenGL rendering GPU. Set your to your
graphics card. Power management mode.
Power perform maximum performance.
Preferred refresh rate highest
available. And the shader cache size set
to unlimited. Let's go down to the
bottom and make sure texture filtering
quality is set to high performance. and
then press apply on the bottom right. Go
to change resolution and then click use
Nvidia color settings at the bottom and
set the output dynamic range to full.
Then press apply on the bottom right.
Then close out of Nvidia control panel
and now right click on the desktop and
click display settings. Go to advanced
display and set your refresh rate to the
maximum refresh rate which is going to
be 144 hertz for my PC. Then close out
of that. Go to Nvidia settings and open
up Nvidia profile inspector. And then
just maximize this a little bit. And
then scroll down. Going to look for
force CUDA force P2 state and set that
to off. Then we're going to press apply
changes on the top right. Scroll down an
RB bar feature set to enabled and then
RB bar options 00x1 and then RB bar size
limit to the one with Red Dead
Redemption in the name. Then press apply
changes on the top right. This RA bar
feature doesn't actually enable resize
bar support. However, what this setting
does, it just somehow maximizes FPS even
more even though it doesn't actually
enable resize bar support. on via
profile inspector and go to the third
folder and we're going to click click
choose a power plan and you want to make
sure that you're using ultimate
performance power plan or high
performance or a custom power plan like
I'm using. Then go to disable core
isolation and we're going to make sure
we disable core isolation. However,
Valerant is one of those games where you
might have to leave it enabled if you
get an HPCIE error. So, if you get that
error, just make sure to leave core
isolation enabled. Then, we're going to
go to turn on hardware accelerary GPU
scheduling. Make sure to turn this on.
It helps boost FPS in Valerant and any
many other games. Go to uninstall apps
and just uninstall any apps that you do
not need on your PC because these tend
to run in the background and cause a lot
of problems with your mouse field and
your FPS. Go to apps and then go to
startup and just disable any startup
applications that you do not need. Then
go to system, go to notifications, turn
these off, and then you're going to go
to storage and make sure that you turn
off storage sense because we don't need
necessary, we don't need these
unnecessary background tabs in the
background. Then go to gaming game mode.
Turn on game mode. And then that's all
you have to do for that. Then to
uninstall Xbox Game Bar, just run that
uninstall Xbox Game Bar.bat as
administrator. This is going to
uninstall Xbox Game Bar and it won't be
running on your game while you're
playing.
Then go back, go to BIOS settings for
Valerant. And then all we're going to do
is double click the restart to BIOS,
it's going to automatically take you to
BIOS. However, if you double click it
twice and it still doesn't work, then
just restart your PC and spam delete.
Now, I'm going to cover the Intel BIOS
settings for now. Then I'm going to dive
into AMD. So, what you want to do is you
want to go to extreme tweaker and you
want to enable ASUS multi-core
enhancement or enable multi-core
enhancement in your BIOS settings. Then
go to advance at the top. Go to CPU
configuration and you want to disable
hyperthreading. This helps with mouse
field. Then go to CPU power management
control, disable Intel speed chip
technology. And then you want to disable
CPU C states and also disable thermal
monitor. A lot of these are power saving
options that fluctuate your clock speeds
and set your certain cores to sleep
while you're gaming. And you don't want
that. You want everything completely
running at max power while you're
playing games. So that's why we're
disabling these. Then go back to Extreme
Tweaker. Just make sure you have XMP
enabled and then save changes and reset.
For AMD BIOS, you want to make sure that
global seate control is disabled. You
want to enable precision boost
overdrive. And XMPP or DCOCP, set this
to enabled. And then SMT, if you're on a
Ryzen 9, disable this. However, if
you're on anything below a Ryzen 9,
leave it on on. BIOS is where your CP
performance gets bottlenecked. We've
seen high-end rigs throttled because of
cases or lack of XMPP. We safely tune
all this in our competitive optimization
service. So, if BIOS feels intimidating,
we've got you covered. USB coalition can
introduce unnecessary pulling delay,
especially on mouse input. Disabling can
shave off a lot of input delay. So, what
we're going to do is we're going to go
to the last folder, the optional folder.
And it's completely optional to do,
guys. You don't have to do this. On
higher NPCs, this is better to do. On
lower NPCs, you might have to test
around with it because it might reduce
your FPS because you're constantly
pulling instead of just packaging it up
and sending it over. Now, I just want to
make something clear. Sometimes Valerant
doesn't play nice with this because of
core isolation. So if you get an error
while doing this, like launching
Valerant or actually launching the RW
everything program, I'd recommend just
staying away from it because core
isolation just doesn't let this happen
at all. So double click RW everything
and just install this program. This is
completely needed for what we're going
to do for this step. Then go to the fix
driver cannot be loaded error. And you
want to run this if you're on Windows 11
in order to disable the vulnerable
driver block list because if you don't
disable this, RW everything will just
give you an error. So just double click
this, press yes, and then press okay.
Then go back and then go to move this to
your C drive. We're going to right click
on this and we're going to click copy.
We're going to go to this PC then C
drive and then just paste it into there.
This is the script that will be run on
startup in order to disable USB
coalition. Then go to move this to
startup folder. Then just copy this as
well. Then press Windows key and R and
type shell colon startup. And then it's
going to open up with this startup
folder. Just right click and then paste
the disable imod.bat file into there.
And then next time you restart your PC,
this will automatically disable USB
coalitioning, which will help in more
than just Valerant in terms of input
delay. Valerance engine rewards
fine-tuned systems and punishes
misconfigured ones. You can do a lot
with guides like this, but if you want
us to optimize your full system, BIOS,
operating system, latency, even memory
tuning, we offer one-on-one sessions
where we handle it all for you. Book
your personal optimization at zill.net.
It's done live. It's risk-f free and
money back if you don't feel the
difference. and is trusted by over a
thousand gamers who now play smoother.